Add DynamoDB source (#5664)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/dynamo-db.md

---
layout: default
title: dynamodb
parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 3
---

# dynamodb

> The `dynamodb` source enables change data capture (CDC) which streams [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) table events such as `create`, `update`, or `delete` to Data Prepper events in near real-time.

Author: ```suggestion
The `dynamodb` source enables change data capture (CDC) on [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) tables. It can receive table events such as `create`, `update`, or `delete` via DynamoDB streams and supports initial snapshots using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/).
```

The source includes two ingestion options to stream DynamoDB events:

> 1. _Full Initial Snapshot_ during [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/) which backs your table automatically. This requires both the PITR Snapshots and DyanmoDB streaming options are enabled on your DynamoDB table.

Reviewer: > which backs your table automatically

This is a little unclear. Maybe this could be reworded to:

> _Full Initial Snapshot_ using DynamoDB's [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/). You can use this option to get the initial snapshot of the current state of the DynamoDB table. This requires both the PITR Snapshots and DynamoDB streaming options are enabled on your DynamoDB table.

> 1. _Full Initial Snapshot_ during [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/) which backs your table automatically. This requires both the PITR Snapshots and DyanmoDB streaming options are enabled on your DynamoDB table.

Reviewer: > This requires both the PITR Snapshots and DyanmoDB streaming

I'm not sure this is accurate. I don't think you need streaming to use the PITR.

2.  Stream events from DynamoDB streams without full initial snapshots. This is useful for users who already have a mechanism for snapshots within their pipelines. This requires that DynamoDB stream is enabled on the DynamoDB table.

## Usage

> The following example pipeline specifies DynamoDB as a source. It ingests data from a DyanmoDB table, named `table-a` through a PITR snapshot. It also indicates the `start_position`, which tells the pipeline how to read events DynamoDB stream. The sink wi

Reviewer: > The sink wi

It looks like you missed something.

```json
version: "2"
cdc-pipeline:
  source:
    dynamodb:
      tables:
        - table_arn: "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-west-2:123456789012:table/table-a"
          export:
            s3_bucket: "test-bucket"
            s3_prefix: "xxx/"
          stream:
            start_position: "LATEST" # Read latest data from streams (Default)
      aws:
        region: "us-west-2"
        sts_role_arn: "role-arn"
```

## Configuration options

The following tables describe the configuration options for the `dynamodb` source.

> ### Shared options

Reviewer: I don't think "Shared options" is the right header. I believe elsewhere we just say "Configuration" for the root level.

> ### Shared options

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The following settings are shared between the `dynamodb` source and your data stores.

Reviewer: >  are shared between the `dynamodb` source and your data stores.

I'm not sure what this means.

I think we should say this instead as it fits how other pages start similar sections.

> You can use the following options to configure the `dynamodb` source.

> The following settings are shared between the `dynamodb` source and your data stores.

Author: ```suggestion
The following settings are shared between the `dynamodb` source.
```

> Option | Required | Type | Description

Reviewer: We need the following options:

* acknowledgments (see the `s3` source and use the same basic wording)
* shard_acknowledgment_timeout
* s3_data_file_acknowledgment_timeout
* tables - This will also need a section below.

Author: Do you have descriptions for the middle two?

:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `coordinator` | Yes | JSON Array | Stores coordination settings based on the existing coordination store template. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is an option in the source. It is part of the data-prepper-config.yaml. I think we can remove this line.

> `aws` | Yes | JSON Array | The [AWS]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/#aws) authentication settings.

Reviewer: Change this line to:

> `aws` | Yes | AWS | The AWS configuration. See [aws](#aws) for more information.

We will need to add a new `aws` section. You can see how the `s3` source depicts the AWS options and follow that pattern.

### Export options

> The following settings set the export options for the `dynamodb` source.

Reviewer: The export option will be part of the `tables` options.

Option | Required | Type | Description

> :--- | :--- | :--- | :---

Reviewer: We also need `s3_region`

`s3_bucket` | Yes | String | The destination bucket that stores the exported data files.
`s3_prefix` | No | String | The custom prefix for the S3 bucket.
`s3_sse_kms_key_id` | No | String |  An AWS KMS Customer Managed Key (CMK) that encrypts the export data files. The `key_id` is the ARN of the KMS key, for example, `arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:123456789012:key/0a4bc22f-bb96-4ad4-80ca-63b12b3ec147`.

> ### Stream options

Reviewer: The stream option will be part of the `tables` options.

Use the following stream option when the DynamoDB stream option is enabled on the DynamoDB table.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `start_position` | No | String | The start position from when the source reads events from the stream. `LATEST` starts reading event about the most recent stream record. `TRIM_HORIZON` starts reading at the last untrimmed record, which is usually the oldest record still stored in the shard. When exporting to an S3 bucket, this value is ignored and set to `LATEST`.

Reviewer: Only `LATEST` is supported. We removed `TRIM_HORIZON`.

> `start_position` | No | String | The start position from when the source reads events from the stream. `LATEST` starts reading event about the most recent stream record. `TRIM_HORIZON` starts reading at the last untrimmed record, which is usually the oldest record still stored in the shard. When exporting to an S3 bucket, this value is ignored and set to `LATEST`.

Author: ```suggestion
`start_position` | No | String | The start position from when the source reads events from the stream. `LATEST` starts reading event about the most recent stream record. 
```

---
layout: default
title: dynamodb
parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 3
---

# dynamodb

> The `dynamodb` source enables change data capture (CDC) on [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) tables. It can receive table events such as `create`, `update`, or `delete` via DynamoDB streams and supports initial snapshots using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/).

Author: ```suggestion
The `dynamodb` source enables change data capture (CDC) on [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) tables. It can receive table events such as `create`, `update`, or `delete` using DynamoDB streams and supports initial snapshots using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/).
```

The source includes two ingestion options to stream DynamoDB events:

1. _Full Initial Snapshot_ using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/) gets an initial snapshot of the current state of the DynamoDB table. This requires the PITR Snapshots and DyanmoDB option enabled on your DynamoDB table.
2.  Stream events from DynamoDB streams without full initial snapshots. This is useful for users who already have a mechanism for snapshots within their pipelines. This requires that DynamoDB stream is enabled on the DynamoDB table.

## Usage

The following example pipeline specifies DynamoDB as a source. It ingests data from a DyanmoDB table, named `table-a` through a PITR snapshot. It also indicates the `start_position`, which tells the pipeline how to read events DynamoDB stream. 

> ```json

Reviewer: This is YAML. Please change to:

```
```yaml
```

> ```json

Author: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

version: "2"
cdc-pipeline:
  source:
    dynamodb:
      tables:
        - table_arn: "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-west-2:123456789012:table/table-a"
          export:
            s3_bucket: "test-bucket"

>             s3_prefix: "xxx/"

Reviewer: Let's use a different prefix here that is clearer. e.g. `my-prefix/`

>             s3_prefix: "xxx/"

Author: ```suggestion
            s3_prefix: "myprefix"
```

          stream:
            start_position: "LATEST" # Read latest data from streams (Default)
      aws:
        region: "us-west-2"

>         sts_role_arn: "role-arn"

Reviewer: Let's make this IAM role ARN look like a real role:

```
arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-iam-role
```

>         sts_role_arn: "role-arn"

Author: ```suggestion
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-iam-role"
```

```

## Configuration options

The following tables describe the configuration options for the `dynamodb` source.

The following settings are shared between the `dynamodb` source.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`aws` | Yes | AWS | The AWS configuration. See [aws](#aws) for more information.
`acknowledgments` | No | Boolean  | When `true`, enables `s3` sources to receive [end-to-end acknowledgments]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines#end-to-end-acknowledgments) when events are received by OpenSearch sinks.
`shared_acknowledgement_timeout` | No | Duration | The time before the data read from a DynamoDB stream expires when used with acknowledgements. Default is 10 minutes.

> `s3_data_file_acknowledgment_timeout` | No | Duration | The time before the data read from a DynamoDB export expires when used with acknowledgments. Default is 10 minutes.

Reviewer: This default is 5 minutes.

> `s3_data_file_acknowledgment_timeout` | No | Duration | The time before the data read from a DynamoDB export expires when used with acknowledgments. Default is 10 minutes.

Author: ```suggestion
`s3_data_file_acknowledgment_timeout` | No | Duration | The time before the data read from a DynamoDB export expires when used with acknowledgments. Default is 5 minutes.
```

> `tables` | Yes | Object | The configuration for the DynamoDB table. See [tables](#tables) for more information.

Reviewer: Rather than `Object` in the third column, let's use either `List of Table` or `List`.

> `tables` | Yes | Object | The configuration for the DynamoDB table. See [tables](#tables) for more information.

Author: ```suggestion
`tables` | Yes | List | The configuration for the DynamoDB table. See [tables](#tables) for more information.
```

### aws

Use the following options in the AWS configuration:

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
`aws_sts_header_overrides` | No | Map | A map of header overrides that the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.

### tables

Use the following options with the `tables` configuration.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `s3_bucket` | Yes | String | The destination bucket that stores the exported data files.

Reviewer: The structure of `tables` has two sections: `export` and stream`.

So I think this table section should have two rows: `export` and `stream`. Then these rows will point to two other sections. Each of those sections will have a table for those configurations.

The `export` has the four configurations that start with `s3_`.

The `stream` table will only have `start_position`.

`s3_data_file_acknowledgment_timeout` | No | Duration | The time before the data read from a DynamoDB export expires when used with acknowledgments. Default is 5 minutes.
`tables` | Yes | List | The configuration for the DynamoDB table. See [tables](#tables) for more information.

### aws

Use the following options in the AWS configuration:

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
`aws_sts_header_overrides` | No | Map | A map of header overrides that the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.

### tables

> Use the following options with the `tables` configuration.

Reviewer: I think we should add this table here. This way, users know what options come next.

```
Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`table_arn` | Yes | String | The ARN of the DynamoDB table to use as a source.
`export` | No | Export | See the [export](#export) options.
`stream` | No | Stream | See the [stream](#stream) options.
```

#### Export options

The following options let you customize where to export DynamoDB events.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`s3_bucket` | Yes | String | The destination bucket that stores the exported data files.
`s3_prefix` | No | String | The custom prefix for the S3 bucket.
`s3_sse_kms_key_id` | No | String |  An AWS KMS Customer Managed Key (CMK) that encrypts the export data files. The `key_id` is the ARN of the KMS key, for example, `arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:123456789012:key/0a4bc22f-bb96-4ad4-80ca-63b12b3ec147`.
`s3_region` | No | String | The region for the S3 bucket.

> #### Source option

Reviewer: This is `Stream options`.

> #### Source option

Author: ```suggestion
#### Stream options
```

---
layout: default
title: dynamodb
parent: Sources
grand_parent: Pipelines
nav_order: 3
---

# dynamodb

> The `dynamodb` source enables change data capture (CDC) on [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/) tables. It can receive table events such as `create`, `update`, or `delete` using DynamoDB streams and supports initial snapshots using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/).

Author: We're referring to the resource, so I'll keep this as is.

The source includes two ingestion options to stream DynamoDB events:

> 1. _Full Initial Snapshot_ using [point-in-time recovery (PITR)](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/pitr/) gets an initial snapshot of the current state of the DynamoDB table. This requires the PITR Snapshots and DyanmoDB option enabled on your DynamoDB table.

Author: Changed the capitalization.

2.  Stream events from DynamoDB streams without full initial snapshots. This is useful if you already have a mechanism for snapshots within your pipelines. This requires that DynamoDB stream is enabled on the DynamoDB table.

## Usage

The following example pipeline specifies DynamoDB as a source. It ingests data from a DyanmoDB table named `table-a` through a PITR snapshot. It also indicates the `start_position`, which tells the pipeline how to read DynamoDB stream events:

```yaml
version: "2"
cdc-pipeline:
  source:
    dynamodb:
      tables:
        - table_arn: "arn:aws:dynamodb:us-west-2:123456789012:table/table-a"
          export:
            s3_bucket: "test-bucket"
            s3_prefix: "myprefix"
          stream:
            start_position: "LATEST" # Read latest data from streams (Default)
      aws:
        region: "us-west-2"
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-iam-role"
```

## Configuration options

The following tables describe the configuration options for the `dynamodb` source.

> The following settings are shared between the `dynamodb` source.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`region` | No | String | The AWS Region to use for credentials. Defaults to [standard SDK behavior to determine the Region](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/region-selection.html).
`sts_role_arn` | No | String | The AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) role to assume for requests to Amazon SQS and Amazon S3. Defaults to `null`, which will use the [standard SDK behavior for credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-java/latest/developer-guide/credentials.html).
`aws_sts_header_overrides` | No | Map | A map of header overrides that the IAM role assumes for the sink plugin.

### tables

Use the following options with the `tables` configuration.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`table_arn` | Yes | String | The ARN of the source DynamoDB table.
`export` | No | Export | Determines how to export DynamoDB events. For more information, see [export](#export-options).
`stream` | No | Stream | Determines how to the pipeline reads data from the DynamoDB table. For more information, see [stream](#stream-option).

#### Export options

> The following options let you customize where to export DynamoDB events.

Author: ```suggestion
The following options let you customize the export destination for DynamoDB events.
```

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---
`s3_bucket` | Yes | String | The destination bucket that stores the exported data files.
`s3_prefix` | No | String | The custom prefix for the S3 bucket.

> `s3_sse_kms_key_id` | No | String |  An AWS KMS Customer Managed Key (CMK) that encrypts the export data files. The `key_id` is the ARN of the KMS key, for example, `arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:123456789012:key/0a4bc22f-bb96-4ad4-80ca-63b12b3ec147`.

Author: It still appears in the KMS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#customer-cmk.

Are you referring to the term CMK?

> `s3_sse_kms_key_id` | No | String |  An AWS KMS Customer Managed Key (CMK) that encrypts the export data files. The `key_id` is the ARN of the KMS key, for example, `arn:aws:kms:us-west-2:123456789012:key/0a4bc22f-bb96-4ad4-80ca-63b12b3ec147`.

Reviewer 2: Correct, it should no longer appear in that documentation. It should be AWS KMS key (first mention) and KMS key (subsequent mention).

`s3_region` | No | String | The region for the S3 bucket.

#### Stream option

The following option lets you customize how the pipeline reads events from the DynamoDB table.

Option | Required | Type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :---

> `start_position` | No | String | The start position from when the source reads events from the stream when the DynamoDB stream option is enabled on the table `LATEST` starts reading event about the most recent stream record. 

Author: ```suggestion
`start_position` | No | String | The start position from when the source reads events from the stream when the DynamoDB stream option is enabled. `LATEST` starts reading event about the most recent stream record. 
```
